about the moose.
I don't really remember the term moose buckets, but I know that the phrase was getting moosed.
And it's interesting, all the way to San Antonio, the weekend I met my wife, I threatened that he had set me up with a date Friday night and Saturday during the day and Saturday night.
And I kept telling him all the way down there if he moosed me, I'd stick Friday night out, but he had both of them Saturday.
I was not going to stay down there, but I
Just the whole way down, I said, Bill, if you moosed me.
And one of the cruelest things I think I can recall regarding that was we were sitting in Sabisa Hall one Saturday.
I had a friend of my father's with me who was from Waco and had known my mom and dad for years, and he'd just come down and we went to eat.
And we're sitting there eating and all of a sudden this guy stood up the mess off.
And you know you used to stand up during the week and you'd say, beat the hell out of SCU and everybody would stand up and wildcat and things like that.
Some of them not as nice as others, but this guy stands up and in the middle of the dining that's going on says,
Mr. Jones got moosed, and there's this guy sitting with his date.
And I don't know if she knew what it meant, but I mean, I was terribly embarrassed about it, and he did get moosed.
Was there a crowd reaction, too?
Oh, yeah, kind of chuckle.
I mean, it wasn't any big wildcatting, but there was this embarrassed laughter, I think, is how I would describe that.
But this interesting, years later, this friend of my dad's, remember, you know, he's talking about, I never will forget that guy standing up saying so-and-so got moosed, you know.
Whoever the guy was, I don't remember his name, obviously.
But the beast, I don't really remember that, but it was big time, you know, so-and-so got moosed.
The other thing was flush letters, you know.
When I was a freshman,
A flush letter would be, you know, your girlfriend wrote you and flushed you down the toilet basically, you know, and I mean they'd have little flush parties where they'd go into the bathroom and they'd flush the letter down the commode and they would almost ceremoniously, you know, probably cuss this girl out, certainly say things about her, you know, she's not worth it, she's no good, you're better off, and it was
to quote get rid of her.
I think it was a junior that was flushed and they end up calling me into his room and he's not very good with words and he can't write very well and he wants to write this girl a letter and beg her forgiveness and all.
And so I get, I get commissioned to write this letter
And you're a freshman?
A freshman, yeah.
So it goes back, I mean, I'm not sure what to do, but I sit down and start writing, and I mean, Mary, I tell you, I got the gift for the gab sometime.
I start writing this letter about my dearest darling, and my heart is pained, you know, so greatly from the letter I received, and, you know, I love you so deeply, and I don't know, I wrote all this flowery stuff.
And I can remember these juniors reading that letter, and saying,
Damn, Fish Hickman, this is some good stuff.
Damn, Fish Hickman, wow.
Where did you get all this stuff, you know?
And I mean, it impressed those guys.
It kind of probably set me in good with some of them.
And so I see the guy sometime later, and I said, did you ever send a letter?
And he said, nah, nah, you know, I went on to another girl by now.
So it was almost like it was a, they put me through an exercise.
But I mean, I think he was in pain at the time, but he got over it real quickly, a lot sooner than he led me to believe.
But, you know, that was a big deal if you went to the post office and got a flush letter.
And, you know, a lot of times guys had high school girlfriends and then they would go to college and she may still be in high school or she'd go to a different college and obviously girls weren't going to school here when I first came here.
That happened before I left.
But, so, I mean, you know, the girls would meet somebody else and next thing you know these guys would get these flush letters.
So, it was not uncommon for these guys to be getting
blush letters, particularly our first year in school here.
And, you know, I think back on that, that's kind of interesting.
The MSC.
Yeah.
What role did that play in the student's life?
Well, MSC was, you know, I think back in those days there was certainly, probably in general, more reverence for the
sacrifices people made, so the MSC always had this special place and everybody started, you know, to some degree I think it still does, but MSC was a place you took, you know, parents, your girlfriends, you, it was a place on Sundays you'd go up there sometime and study and read.
It was kind of a safe haven, I'd say, as well as
as anything else.
I don't remember eating there a lot.
What about the programs at the MSC's activities?
Yeah, they had a lot of activities and unfortunately I didn't get involved in a lot of them.
I was involved in a hometown club.
Most of it was and I was involved in a
interdenominational religious club, and some... Talk about religion.
Well, there again, I was a little unique.
My grandmother was a very religious person.
My grandmother taught me a lot about what I know about religion, really, because
You know, I can remember she had, right there at Northgate, she had a, she kept her little stewardship envelopes where she managed an apartment house.
And in her bathroom there was a board that she had keys to the apartments up there that she kept.
And keys to, and she rented out some garages there as well.
And she kept her stewardship envelopes up there, and every Sunday she'd pull in.
She probably taught me more about stewardship than anybody just watching her as a little boy on Sundays grabbing that envelope.
We went to the A&M Presbyterian Church, which was just really a block named, two blocks behind, where she lived on Church Street there.
It was short blocks, too, really.
And so we'd walk to church.
I walked from my dorm at Northgate there over to her place and then walked to church with her a lot of times on Sundays.
And I got involved a little bit with some of the student organizations, but never really got strongly plugged into that.
As a freshman it's kind of hard to do some of that because you could get passes to do things like that.
But I don't remember doing that.
I was pretty regular going to church on Sunday.
Do you think a lot of students went to the Northgate churches?
No.
Well, I mean, it was a mixture.
I mean, there were some.
My roommate Chris went regularly.
He was a Catholic, and he went regularly to church.
And I guess there were, you know, it's hard for me to say.
I just don't remember.
I remember going to church.
I remember my roommate going to church.
I remember other people going to church on Sunday morning, but a lot of times, you know, the weekends, people would get out of here.
You know, you stop and think, we didn't have girls here then.
7,500 is all core for the most part.
I mean, core, you know, 4,500, 5,000 out of the 7,500 anyway.
And so when you, you know, finish drill Saturday at noon, I mean, people dispersed.
So that's probably why I don't remember as much of the church-wide activities.
I know there were some people in my outfit that we did some church functions together, and they were upperclassmen.
And when you'd get to those functions, they would very quickly drop handles with you and then remind you that you were fish-hickling when you got back to the dorm.
But they always treated you different after that.
Do you remember any students who were not either Christian or apparently Christian
Remember any Jewish students, any Muslim?
Yeah, I can remember some, but I don't have any memories of them other than if there were some here.
Do you remember any incidents that in hindsight would have been in them?
No, I don't remember any prejudicial treatment of those people at all.
The main thing, you know, we would always call the students from
like Indian, Pakistan, camel jocks.
I mean, that was a pretty regular term.
Mary and I, when we lived in Mary apartments, we had some from India live below us.
And nice people, we got to know them.
The only thing I could sense is that woman cooked with curry strongly.
And I mean, I cannot eat curry now, because every night I smell that.
We lived upstairs, you know, and we lived over in College View, and that would come up in the area.
But I don't personally,
remember any instance that embarrassed me now related to religion.
We had Hispanics here.
We did not have any black students.
I don't recall at that time if we did.
But I don't think we did.
And I don't recall any prejudicial treatment of the Hispanic people that were here.
There were several in my outfit, so one lived next door to me.
And they may have had, if you were to talk to them, they may have some stories of some situations.
I didn't personally observe anything like that.
Why do you think A&M student body was a competitively inclusive group for these other, for this diversity?
Well, I've always, you know, and I guess A&M taught me, I shouldn't say I've always felt this way.
I've felt since I've come to A&M and I've seen situations that have caused that to happen since.
difficult times will bind people together.
And that can also fragment people.
But I think there was a common thread that we were Aggies.
Particularly if you're going through the core and you're going through push-ups and all of that.
I mean it didn't matter whether you were black, white, green, yellow, blue, whatever.
You know, you were going through this and you were an Aggie and this guy's going through what you're going through.
And I think that there's something to be said about that's why we come out of this school with a tremendous, you know, I've talked to other Aggies that went to school in the time frame I did or earlier, and I'm not unique that I hated this place early on.
And, you know, as you talk to others, if they'll be honest with you, there'll be others that will tell you that.
And I mean, I can remember clearly, I hate this damn place.
I mean, I can remember sitting in my room and having upperclassmen walk up and down the hallway screaming that out as I'm studying.
But that changed, you said, even during your second semester.
Yeah, it did for me.
Now, I would say I was unique there.
I was fortunate that it happened for me then.
I think others had happened sophomore and junior year.
But I love to, my second semester, my freshman year, I enjoy.
It's too bad freshmen don't really understand that there is a way to enjoy that first year experience.
But my point is that something happens here that causes people, I mean, a lot of schools that kids come in and say, I really like it here, and they leave, I really like it here, and they're not supporting their university.
They say, here, there's a transformation from I hate it to, you know, gosh almighty, we're burying them in maroon caskets, and
You know, I go to a football game, they're saying the spirit, I still get a little misty-eyed and things like that.
And I mean, I have this intense love for this university, which fortunately my wife lived here for two years and understands, because otherwise I think that would be a problem.
I think, you know, at least from the inclusiveness, I think it's from going through difficult times.
My son-in-law, James Barrett, class 85, and my daughter Carol's class 85, his father is a survivor of junction with Barry Bryant.
Now you want to talk about a group that's still united and bonds together, you know, Marvin Tate, Dennis Goering, Gene Stallings, Jack Pardee,
And when my daughter's father-in-law comes, he used to come see us in Houston and spend the weekend with us.
He'd get on the phone and call Pardee and next thing you know he's down at his home.
Pardee's coaching the Oilers, got football games going on.
He still always had time for Ray Barrett out of West Texas.
But I think those guys went through something that will bind them together for life.
And so long-winded answer to your question, I think the inclusiveness comes from going through an experience together.
And I've seen it other times where if you go through some rough times together, you come out of it better off as individuals and with a better relationship if you survive it.
What is the real meaning of the term Highway 6 runs both ways?
It doesn't get caught up in the Aggie spirit or doesn't like the way we do things.
It's inbound and it's outbound is one way to look at it, the other way is it runs both north and south.
But meaning that anytime you don't like it here, hit the rope, Jack.
I mean, that's what it means to me.
Which, it's interesting, you know, you'll still find people say that, even from our classes, if you were to say something that, hey, you know, it's Highway 6 runs both ways.
That wouldn't happen as often.
We say that a lot.
You know, some guys say, ah, this is stupid.
I think that's stupid.
I don't want to do this.
Hey, Jack, Highway 6 runs both ways.
Don't let the door hitch in the rear on the way out.
And...
That's probably a little bit elitist bit, you know, we get into this and we like it and we don't want it to change.
And if you want to change it, we don't necessarily want you around here.
I don't know that it was so much that we don't want you here, but if you're not happy here, get the highway.
kind of discarded.
Yeah, I have no memories of that, of any significance at all.
G. Raleigh White was where we played all the games, which opened up in the 50s as I recall.
It was a new facility, you see, to us.
And that's where we graduated too.
Make believe that I had never seen G. Raleigh describe it for me, on the inside.
Physically and emotionally.
Well, emotionally, it was, I mean,
I guess that's hard for me to do, Haskell.
I'm not gifted like you are with describing feelings and all so much, but it was a basketball arena or a coliseum that always, it's a horseshoe like the football field is.
You know, it had that one end that was just a wall.
I never did understand that, not that I ever really tried to understand it, but
You know physically it's rather steep and if you get up in the top it does seem rather high up there.
You know emotionally there's some special things that have happened there.
I've seen some great basketball games.
You know, I remember one year we were playing Texas and we had a one point lead on and they had a guy foul and he went to the free throw line and missed the free throws and got the rebound and we fouled him again.
But the same guy on the line, he missed free throws again and we ended up winning that game like by one point.
And this guy missed these free throws in the last six seconds of the game and it's right at the end of the game.
It seemed like they were both one and ones, he may have just missed two.
I mean, gee, that place was wild, yelling and screaming.
The guy had been lucky, he was lucky he got it up there at all.
I mean, there was so much emotion in that room at the time.
What other activities?
Well, we had Town Hall in there.
Do you remember any other, other than the music, some famous people you remember?
Yes, I heard Lyndon Johnson when he was Vice President of the United States here.
He came and spoke on campus.
I remember him, when he finished he saw somebody he knew, so he jumped down and off the rather high platform there, which I thought was kind of spry for him.
Another thing I remember is Olin Teague had some sons, and my wife could tell you the ones, the son that did this, because I can't remember his name right now, but Mary was pregnant with our daughter.
And the only seats that were left were way up at the top of the G Raleigh, and we were about to walk up there.
And he was sitting like on the first row, and he saw Mary, and he gave us that.
Where he was sitting, there was enough room for, I think, if both of us sat down.
I know he gave her his seat, so she went and crawled up there.
This was for the LBJ speech?
Yeah, this one went to LBJ speech.
That was Scoma.
It was.
See, I didn't remember that.
I just remember he came.
Were you part of the group that welcomed Linda Byrd to
lunch at Duncan.
I don't even know that story.
At a given point, this was where, Scona was then in December, right after we had lost the football game very, very early.
Oh, yeah, gosh, December of 63.
There you go.
And, no, no, no, no.
November of 63.
I thought he came in 62.
And we had lost about one.
Oh, we lost over in Austin like 21 to 14 or something like that.
And so in a given signal, every fish jumps up and yells, beat the hell out of T.U.
Oh, is that right?
Then Linda Bird stands up sternly, and the room is very silent.
She puts her napkins down, then pushes a chair under the table, looks around.
It is irkily quiet.
and then all at once yells, hook them horns.
And they applaud her.
In 1980, in the fall of 1980, I had a chance to tell that story to Lady Bird.
And Mrs. Johnson quickly said, that's my girl.
That's my girl.
Describe commencement in the
Well, not a lot different than it was now.
We sat on the floor.
No, but make believe that you're explaining it to someone that's never seen or heard of it.
Well, at commencement, the graduates sit on the floor, and basketball floor, and parents all sit up in the stands.
It's packed.
Graduation special at A&M always has been.
Every graduate walks the stage, gets his diploma from the president, actually is not rushed even.
I mean, there's a
That's one of the special things about graduation in last year's President's Association.
The thing I will miss most this year is sitting on stage for graduation.
I loved that.
I loved it.
Watching the faces of those kids, and where I sat up there, I could see their faces just before they got their diploma.
And then I could see their faces right after they got, and another, and I'll skip around a little bit, but I could, one thing that was interesting was watch them when they come marching in.
They all find their parents.
Now, Aunt Mary had a reserve seat and I knew where she was and I'm still kind of looking for her up there.
But those kids, there's 8,000 people sitting up there and they find their parents, all of them.
And it was thrilling for me to see how many of them acknowledge their relatives when they get their diploma.
And you know, in other words, this isn't just me walking the stage, this is all of us getting this diploma.
the smiles on their faces and the shaking of the diploma at their parents and the parents cheering and ringing cowbells and all the things that they can do up there.
And I hope we never lose that moment.
Are the names called out?
Yes, every name is called out.
Are they pronounced correctly?
Well, you know that's interesting.
Roger Fellman's been doing that for years and I can't recall the other gentleman's name that does that.
Don't put that in the book.
I couldn't remember his name because I met him this year.
But I talked to Roger on stage this year and I said, Roger, how do you do that?
He said, I can go down the list.
And he said, when I see a name I'm unsure of, I call the guy on the phone.
And I say, how do I pronounce your name?
Can you imagine?
I mean, we graduate, what, 9,000 students here a year.
Is that about right?
Yeah, that's what Ray told me.
There's 10 graduations count in that school and the medical college graduations here.
And in that period of time, I mean, this guy calls every name he's not sure of.
And these, the Oriental names, and he whips those names out.
And I'm amazed at the time they take to do that right.
But they do it right.
And the graduation is a wonderful experience.
It is a wonderful time.
You know, it's interesting.
I remember my graduation speaker.
It was Governor Conley, John Conley.
I graduated in 64, he was shot in 63, and I asked him to sign my program outside G. Raleigh after the graduation was over.
And I didn't realize this until later, but he said, well I'd be happy to, and he starts signing and he looked over his right shoulder up at the top of G. Raleigh White, and then he signed a little bit more and he looked over his shoulder, and in signing
Best wishes, you know, John Conley kind of thing.
He must have looked over his shoulder three or four times.
And then later on I realized he was shot upper right.
And this was just months later.
And so he was very, still had a tremendous impact on his life, as you can imagine.
But anyway, graduations are wonderful.
As you have seen graduations over many years, have they changed much?
I don't think they've changed a lot, personally, which is something I'm proud of.
And I hope they never do.
I mean, I hear these places where they ask everybody to stand up and they confer the degree and then they all sit down and ours take three hours.
And people told me, you know, don't worry about sitting up on that stage three hours because they have a break where you can go off to.
You know, Haskell, I only left that stage in eight graduations a couple of times.
One was to go grab a guy
that his sister had asked me to say hello to him.
I missed him crossing the stage.
I saw where he sat down, and I thought he was leaving.
I saw him get up and leave, and I ran out and caught him out in front of G. Raleigh White.
And the other time I went, because my throat got dry, I went to get something to drink, came right back up.
That was the shortest three hours I ever spent, watching those kids graduate.
I didn't get carried away, but graduation is, to me, I would say the experience those kids are having now.
The only thing that's changed is when I graduated, most of the people walking on stage were in uniform.
and now most of the kids that are walking that stage are in caps and gowns.
The Corps still graduates in the uniform, and there are women walking that stage.
Let's go back to that point.
Were you a student when the first women?
Yes, I was.
Tell me what you think was the general reaction.
Well, we didn't want women on campus.
It was kind of interesting.
I can remember having a debate with a freshman when I was a junior.
I mean, it was a friendly little debate.
It wasn't anything upper classmen, lower classmen deal.
But, you know, he was saying if it's state-supported, women are the, you know, that's fair.
And I said, well, if you had ten state-supported schools, you had eight of them co-educational, for those who want to go co-ed, one of them all male and one of them all female, isn't that a fairer distribution of the tax dollars and forcing them all to have women?
My wife, and most of the women that were dating Aggies or that were married Aggies were very opposed to women coming here.
And not because girls would threaten their husband, that wasn't the issue.
The issue that Mary didn't want to ever see leave was how special women were treated on this campus.
And I've had girls when I was being dated said you know I went to Texas or I went to this other school and guys are hanging out the windows yelling at me and obscene things and hey honey come up to my room I'll give you a good time.
And they said that never happens on this campus.
The women were treated with respect and they were treated special.
And my experience was other than the incident with the Moose situation, women were always treated very special here.
If you had a date, you had sophomore privileges, you know, and things like that.
But that's the thing Mary didn't want to see leave, is how, and I don't know, I still think women are treated good here.
I think we've done a good job of holding on to that too.
Now, in high, you know, we didn't want the name changed, and we didn't want women.
They tried to, they were trying to change our name to Texas Tech, I mean Texas State, and
I remember again somebody standing up in the mess hall saying, beat the hell out of Texas State University.
Everybody cheered, you know, because they were happy for that.
Thank you.
Actually, we're talking about the coming of women.
Do you remember any classes that you had with women in them?
No, because most of the, I mean, it was possible, but most of the women that were here were in the freshman classes.
How do you think they were, those first women students were treated in the hallway?
Coldly.
I mean, I don't have any personal experiences of that.
I know I personally, it's kind of like all of that that went on there.
In hindsight, those are the best, that changed this university forever for the better.
I can't tell you the pride of walking my daughter on this campus to go to school here, which would never have happened if that hadn't happened, admitted women obviously.
And you know, the 21 year old guy, whatever I was back then, I wasn't smart enough to see all of that stuff.
The name change was good, we needed to get away from that.
All of those things were good.
but uh I think a lot of us at the time uh that you know there's some probably some bitterness the students probably feel like they have enough to say about it and uh but but for the most part I think uh I think women were in class were probably ignored uh or
I don't remember having a single woman in any of my classes, and I may have and not remember.
Do you remember any reaction at all to the admission of black students?
Uh, no.
No, I don't.
As far as you know, that went with no problem.
Well, you know, I mean, I just, yeah, I mean, I don't know of any problem there.
You know, it's kind of interesting.
I think A&M's always been a place that if you come here expecting something special because you're different,
you're probably going to have trouble.
If you come here saying, hey, look, I just want to be an Aggie, I don't think it matters.
I mean, I've seen some, you know, I've looked at black students rising to be the president of the student body.
I've seen overweight kids in the Corps.
But, you know, I remember a pretty good-sized woman in the band one time that, you know, she came in here and she just was one of the guys, you know, I mean,
I shouldn't say one of the guys, one of the Aggies, you know.
Anybody that comes here and wants to work hard and do their best and try to succeed, I think the door's open.
I really do believe that.
I'm not saying we don't have some that are, may not, I mean, you may, 40-something thousand students, you may have a situation where somebody treats somebody poorly.
But I think that's what Aggie, an Aggie,
translates into a lot of different things, and when you call yourself an Aggie, you're able to, I mean, women, blacks, Hispanics, whites, you know, it doesn't matter.
You can all, you're all called an Aggie, and I think that's a unifying deal, and that's good.
What was your perception for old Rudder?
He was tough.
He ran things the way he wanted to.
There was respect for him, because he was a war hero.
Did y'all have any nicknames for him?
Yeah, gosh, I don't know if I remember.
What did we call him?
General, we call him General a lot.
Describe him physically.
stocky guy.
I don't remember his height, but I don't think he was terribly tall.
But distinguished looking, I always thought, you know, he was a distinguished looking gentleman.
You know, had the greatest impact on this university that any one person will ever have.
I believe, I mean, you can go back and make some arguments for people in the early days and
And Cushing, when he basically saved the university from being part of the University of Texas.
I mean, there's some tremendous things.
But you think about all Rudder did when he was here, it's hard to argue.
I mean, there may have been some people who have done this much, but not more than him.
He lived just over there near us.